you
a tougher challenge than the NGO gari
well the gruel like to fight and some of
them even taller than you and with a lot
less patience it's time to go Gurr with
the gruel so the gruel clans which are
all about red and green mana are
probably the guild least like a guild on
Ravnica and that's because the nature of
red and green mana mean that they're
sort of opposed to the whole idea of
civilization
now that might make them seem like they
have to work at the margins of Ravnica
but the grooc clans are quite powerful
and have persisted for many millennia
all they have to do is wait for an area
to weaken a little bit and move in
they'll use up that area's resources and
now it's grool territory once it runs
out of resources it's time for more
conquering and more raiding and more
destruction Ravnica is such an ancient
city and it has so many layers upon
layers of destroyed and rebuilt
buildings that there's always places for
the gruel to call their own
in fact Skog they're sort of Guildhall
that's not really a guild hall used to
be a palace no one even remembers whose
palace it was but this is a place where
the gruel clan leaders can come every so
often and smash their beasts against
each other smash their heads against
each other see who the strongest is and
then convene and go back to their own
territory I think what we try to do in
getting gruel across as to represent
house savage there you'll notice in the
artwork they aren't static in their
poses they are defending or standing
there trying to look pretty they're
smashing through stuff there's rubble
flying they're charging towards you and
at like this is a this is a magic thing
in general but if things have teeth they
have big teeth so the gruel guild leader
Barbara gross is an enormous
Cyclops who has survived many many
challenges to his to his rule warburg
most has managed to hold on to power
through basically sheer strength and
grit for borborygmi so we knew he was
coming back and I kept submitting all
these designs and they were always
called barbering most bolder her
he would always like sacrifice a land
and throw it at something and we don't
really like sacrificing lands it's not
very fun so we came up with a newer
version that discards a land card
instead which is a little more palatable
it doesn't put you quite so far behind
and it sort of evokes the traditional
feeling of the Cyclops who takes a giant
mountain or something and throws it at a
ship so board Meurig MOS is definitely a
guy I love we experimented with a couple
of different things in design but
development has made their own creature
out of him and it made me really excited
to see him the first time because
discarding land to just deal damage to
people for free is super awesome
reminds me of seismic assault from back
in the day when I built a deck
containing Forker scroll for size masal
tanned the rest of the deck was man land
so that you could just hit your cursed
scroll every time and control it with
seismic assault
I almost qualified for Pro Tour with
that deck and it's very fun so of all
the five mechanics in gatecrash the
groove mechanic was actually the last
mechanic that we finalized on the trick
about it was the gruel a very simple
folk they liked attacking and smashing
and we wanted to sort of capture the
essence of the gruel but in a way that
kind of had some complexity in play so
like a simple idea but something that
has some depth to it and it came up the
idea of blood rush which was imagine you
had creatures that when you want them to
be they could be giant gross essentially
you know like the issuing of shank tail
it's a 3-1 fur striker but you could
turn it into a spell it grants + 3 + 1 +
first right and so the neat thing about
it was it doubles it's a creature we
need a creature it's a spell we need a
spell and that it gives you this nice
sort of it allows you to attack but also
has some choices so it's sort of you
know viscera in your face but also it
hasn't settled in how you play it we
were very flavour driven what we wanted
to try to convey was the mob mentality
of of these guys and especially what we
were enamored of the idea that when one
of them engaged in battle another one
would just jump in and help out his
friend just wail on whoever it was
fighting so we came up with something
that was originally called
ambush which is now called blood rush
that that conveys that when your
creature is attacking and all of a
sudden out of nowhere another guy just
jumped
and helps out when we were working on
the concept illustrations for the return
to Ravnica and gatecrash sets one of the
concept illustrators working on the
gruel was Alexei Bree clos Alexei showed
us this drawing of a young almost a
child who was part of the group clans
and was commanding this sort of stampede
of beasts and that image really took
hold for us and we started talking about
this wild child archetype and someone at
some pie can't remember who mentioned
offhandedly like Wow can you imagine if
that dude was a planeswalker so meet Dom
rear aide Dom rear aide is a red-green
planeswalker and he's all about
creatures which I love I'm all about big
green creatures I'm all about
Planeswalkers that have the ability
target creature fights target other
creature because I think fighting is
awesome this guy's a 3-man a
planeswalker he comes out very early he
his first ability draws you creatures
and his second ability makes them fight
with other creatures I think that's
pretty awesome
my fury my freedom my guild gruel won't
you join us
you